
# 2.2 Project 
As a DevOps Engineer, you'll now have had opportunities in the 
last few weeks (and/or will have opportunities in the next couple 
of weeks) to work with some DevOps-related projects in your organisation.  

You may have had the opportunity to apply your knowledge and 
understanding gained from your online and classroom learning to solve 
a problem. This may have been in the form of completing research 
on DevOps pipelines and key tools, as well as understanding 
future trends within CI/CD. 

 

## Activity outline
In this activity, you will:

- Create a Python application that you will subsequently run through a basic CI pipeline
- Document the project context as well as the design of your application and pipeline
- Push your project to an appropriate repository

We recommend that you collaborate with your employer so that you can 
identify appropriate examples to use. We understand that some data may 
be sensitive, you are welcome to anonymise this.

 

### Before you start...

You will need to submit a plan outlining the above aspects. 
This way, we can support you before you go ahead with the formal activity. 
The instructions on how to do this will be included in the next section.

 
## What should I include?

All the examples must, of course, be your own. 
Your submission should cover the following topics:

### Linking Data 
You will need to show that you can:
- Effectively link code to the database and data sets 
- Embed data queries within your code 

Within these data queries, you should also think about demonstrating that you can:
- Make a connection to the database 
- Execute CRUD statements on the database 

 

### Building your application 

You will need to show that you can: 

- Push your code to a SCM repository, with appropriate branching strategy
- Subsequently build your project based on the code in your repository 

You’ll need to install and configure an SCM and build server for this, 
which is consistent with the tooling and set up of the pipeline 
evidenced in the previous module. 

 

### Please evidence: 

- Repository structure (branches, remotes, etc.) 
- Installation/configuration of build server on a machine
- Successful polling of a repository from a build server
- Successful build output for your project in your build server 

Additionally, make sure you show in your evidence that you have applied the following: 

- Elements of programming: variables, assignment statements, data types, conditionals, 
  loops, arrays, and input/output 
- Functions: modular programming dividing a program into components that can be 
  independently debugged, maintained, and reused writing at least two reusable functions 
- Algorithms and data structures: classical algorithms for sorting and searching 
  and fundamental data structures 

Plan carefully to ensure your work is of a high quality.